---
title: "The immortal of kurukshetra"
categories: ["Mythology"]
date: 2023-04-23 00:00:00 +1100
modified: 2023-04-23 00:00:00 +1100
authors: [akshay]
excerpt: "Ashwathama"
image: images/stock/ashwathama.jpg
url: the-immortal-of-kurukshetra
popup: false
---

If you ask anyone "who is the most unfortunate character from Mahabharata" Everyone would say "Karna" but For me, Ashwathama is the most unfortunate character. It all started in `Dwapar yuga`, one of the yuga of chakra cycle. He was born to a poor Brahmin. Lord Shiva had blessed this poor Brahmin with an immortal son. He was free from hunger, disease, and death itself and was very intelligent. He was one of the few warriors to ever have wielded `Narayan Astra` the most powerful weapon humankind has ever seen, which has the power to shatter the dimensions that separate worlds from each other.

He was born with a kind heart, He had seen poverty up close. Ashwathama always helped the poor and needy. It is said that he didn't even know what milk was. One day Drona saw Kripee giving him flour mixed with water instead of milk. He felt very sad and went to his old-time friend Drupad to ask for one cow for his son. But he refused to give it. Mahabharata, one of the greatest wars humankind has seen. He chose the side of Duryodhana, He knew what Duryodhana did was not right, but he still chose to fight by his side. How can he not? When he was poor it was Duryodhana who helped him. It was Duryodhana that gave him that one cow, the respect he deserved.

Drona was killed by Pandavas by playing trickery. When Ashwathama got to know about the death of his father he was sitting under a banyan tree. Frustrated Ashwatthama remembers how his father was insulted by Drupada, and his son Drishtdyumna beheaded his father when he was in a state of meditation. He remembers Yudhishthira's lie that "Ashwathama was killed". He also remembers that the whole plan was hatched by Lord Krishna himself who together with Pandavas boasted that thiers is the side of Dharma. He then took a vow to wipe out `Pandavas`. Ashwathama was the avatar of lord shiva himself. On seeing this Lord Krishna purposely kept `Pandavas` away from Pandava's camp that night and Ashwathama ended up killing the sons of Pandavas instead. Even Duryodhana knew if he had made Ashwathama the commander of his army earlier he would have wiped `Pandavas` army single-handedly.

Don't know where it all went wrong. I guess it was just fate that played tricks on him. He committed a grave crime, he killed an unborn child with `Bramhastra` when he was blinded by the revenge. Although that child was later saved by Lord Krishna, his name was `Parikshit` the one who was tested even before he was born.

The same Lord Krishna who said "Everything is fair in love and war", the same Lord Krishna who helped Pandavas to kill Drona cursed him to suffer for eternity. He will crave love but no one will love him. He will crave death but he won't die. The Immortality that he was so proud of became a curse for him. The immortal realized his crime and accepted his punishment!

Enough about the past, back to the present. He roamed the earth with disease prone body, but slowly he stopped interfering with the mortal world and started meditating across a river bank. This is the story that not many people know of -

The immortal who was cursed to suffer for eternity has accepted his fate. He watched his friends and family die before him. The Immortality that he was so proud of, he started hating it. He often wondered if his punishment was too big for his crime. One fine day as he was meditating alongside a bank river, with wounds of war all over his body. A girl disturbed his meditation. At first, he was angry but that girl had brought some fruits and ointment for his wounds. She said "I have been watching you for a few years. Even if you are meditating, you should at least eat some fruits. At this rate, u will grow sick and your body much thinner !!"

He was stunned !! He remembers his curse that no one will be kind to him, no one will give him Bhiksha and it was the complete opposite of what he had expected for the first time. He never saw a girl as beautiful as her, and as kind as her. He laughed and his anger went away. He quietly ate those fruits. She used to bring fruits daily and apply ointment daily even though the wounds weren't healing!!

One day he asked that girl who was she and why is she doing it !! She was the daughter of a local king. Her name was "Kaveri".  The river bank where immortal was sitting, we know as the "Kaveri" river today. She had liked him from the day she saw him. On hearing this Ashwathama said, "Even if I am indebted to you I can't reciprocate the same". He asked her "Do you know who am I ?" It just took these words for that immortal to fall in love with that girl.. she said ..."does it matter, even if you can't reciprocate the same it's fine just let me take care of you. I don't want anything in return, Isn't this what loving someone means !!!!" A drop of tear fell from his eyes. He doesn't remember how many years has it been since he felt like this.

He decided to fight his fate and asked the king to marry his daughter. On which the king got infuriated. He beat his daughter for bringing this filthy person into his court and asking to marry. He married her off to someone else. The immortal had expected this, he erases the memories of Kaveri because he didn't want her to suffer any more than she already has. He was a yogi, he had the power to see people's remaining days. Due to the curse of eternal suffering, his remaining days were infinity  . But for the first time in history something was changed he saw his remaining days as 4 lac 50 thousand years!! He was never this relieved. But little did he know that fate had something else planned for him. There was this cute creature someone calls it Cupid, some call him Kamadev but very few people know it as the most deadliest curse of all. As if being cursed by eternal suffering wasn't enough he got cursed by love !!

Despite her memories being erased, Kaveri also gets cursed and dies. The immortal couldn't bear this loss, he was in so much pain !! Fate was so cruel to him all along he decided to battle the god of fate Niyati ( the ruler of the chakra cycle). He summoned his Narayana Astra. His fragile body couldn't bear its power but still, he shattered the dimension wall and entered the dimension where this god lived. He battled the force that was protecting this god. And on meeting this god he was stunned. As he saw a person who looked similar to him. He asked what is the meaning of this. On this, that person laughed and at the same time cried like crazy !! He explained everything to him. He told him something he shouldn't have and broke the most forbidden rule as ruler of the chakra cycle. He told him that I am you but from the last chakra cycle. The human who has lived for millennia among the humans, who has suffered for eternity would be the next ruler. There is no other person than him suitable for this role.

He couldn't accept this fact. He questioned, "What did I do to deserve this ? Who decided this fate for me?". He killed Niyati on the spot and refused to accept this fact. He believed in Lord Krishna that what you sow is what reaps. Although he committed a crime, suffering for eternity is a very big punishment! He couldn't accept the fact that it was all preparation for the next ruler !!

Niyati was clever. He placed Kaveri on his path to change everything. Earlier chakra cycle had 108 yugas. Niyati who suffered for 108 yugas in the last chakra cycle couldn't bear seeing the immortal in this state so he placed Kaveri in his path. He wanted to get relieved of his duty, he planned this so that the immortal would kill him.

With no one to rule the chakra cycle. The current yuga became the last yuga known as `Kali Yuga`. No one to govern the karma, people committed such grave crimes that will give us shiver and killing an unborn child (if it's a girl) was pretty normal. It was all immortal's mistake. He is still roaming this earth, waiting for lord Krishna to be born as `Kalki`, waiting for the end of `Kali yuga`. He often encounters strangers that remind him of his past, which reminds him of `Kaveri`. He often envies `Karna`, and `Arjuna` that they escaped pretty easily and it was he that remained on this earth to suffer for eternity !!!
